SSTIC (#1)
Antinomique/blog: www/content/posts/sstic_infra_windows.md

# Introduction

> This post aims to present how to easily setup a lightweight secure user pwning environment for Windows. From your binary challenge communicating with stdin/stdout, this environment leads to have a multi-client broker listening on a socket, redirecting it to the IO of your binary, and executing it in a jail. This environment is mainly based on the project [AppJaillauncher-rs](https://github.com/trailofbits/AppJailLauncher-rs) from trailofbits, with some security fixes and some tips to easily setup the RW rights to the system files from the jail.

Reviewer: this environment **provides** a multi-client
the **[AppJaillauncher-rs]() project**

> This post aims to present how to easily setup a lightweight secure user pwning environment for Windows. From your binary challenge communicating with stdin/stdout, this environment leads to have a multi-client broker listening on a socket, redirecting it to the IO of your binary, and executing it in a jail. This environment is mainly based on the project [AppJaillauncher-rs](https://github.com/trailofbits/AppJailLauncher-rs) from trailofbits, with some security fixes and some tips to easily setup the RW rights to the system files from the jail.

Reviewer 2: J'aurais vu plus un truc comme ça : "This environment is a broker feeding data received from a socket to a binary using stdin/stdout for its communication".

The code of the modified AppJailLauncher-rs is available [here](https://github.com/challengeSSTIC2021/appjaillauncher-rs) and the code of the pwn user windows 10 challenge is available [here](https://github.com/challengeSSTIC2021/Step2_challenge).

## Context 

> A Thalium Team's member participates to the conception of the [SSTIC challenge 2021](https://www.sstic.org/2021/challenge_en/). [SSTIC](https://www.sstic.org/) is one of the most important French cybersecurity conference that is organized every year since 2003. Since 2009 a challenge is proposed several weeks before the start of the conference. This challenge is usually relatively hard/long to solve, this year, b2xiao, the fastest player tooks more than 3 days to solve it. The challenge was split into 5 parts, the Thalium's member contribution was on the step 2. You can find other steps of the challenge on the [GitHub Page](https://github.com/challengeSSTIC2021) of the challenge 

Reviewer 2: the fastest player (challenger ?) took
Alternativement : "It took the fastest challenger 3 days to solve it"

> A Thalium Team's member participates to the conception of the [SSTIC challenge 2021](https://www.sstic.org/2021/challenge_en/). [SSTIC](https://www.sstic.org/) is one of the most important French cybersecurity conference that is organized every year since 2003. Since 2009 a challenge is proposed several weeks before the start of the conference. This challenge is usually relatively hard/long to solve, this year, b2xiao, the fastest player tooks more than 3 days to solve it. The challenge was split into 5 parts, the Thalium's member contribution was on the step 2. You can find other steps of the challenge on the [GitHub Page](https://github.com/challengeSSTIC2021) of the challenge 

Reviewer: A Thalium **Team** member **participated in** the **design** of
cybersecurity **conferences**
5 parts, **with our member contributing** step 2 / 5 parts, **with Thalium contributing** step 2

> This second step was a userland pwn challenge running on a Windows 10 operating system. After reversing the binary and finding the vulnerabilities, the players obtained a heap leak and a RW primitive leading to a RCE. For more information, about solving the challenge you can read the solutions of the participants of the challenge, available on [this page](https://www.sstic.org/2021/challenge/).

Reviewer: leading **to RCE**.
more **information about** solving the **challenge, you** can

## Requirements

> The specifications can be listed as below : 

Reviewer: **specification**

* Limited resources, the proposed machine to use for the remote was [16GO DDR3, 2*1 To Storage, Intel® Xeon E3 1220v2 (4 cores)](https://www.scaleway.com/fr/dedibox/start/start-1-l/). This machine needs to also host the remote infrastructure for other steps, and is running with KVM;

> * As this challenge is the second step and the first is an easy step, it is possible than dozens of challengers connects to this challenge simultaneously;

Reviewer: **connect**

> * As it is a CTF challenge, it is needed that players can not interfere with other players once they get an RCE;

Reviewer: **gain RCE**

> * Players can not make network connections once a RCE is obtained;

Reviewer: **once RCE**

> * Be somewhere resistant to *script-kiddies* tentative of DOS;

Reviewer: **somewhat** resistant to ***script-kiddies*' attempts at DoS**

> * Be somewhere resistant to *script-kiddies* tentative of DOS;

Reviewer 2: somewhere -> somewhat ?

* Preferable that the binary challenge communicates with stdin/stdout in order to not handle network connection;
* Private temporary RW folder for each participant. This requirement is related to the context of the binary challenge;
* Players can read a "big" file on a user Desktop in order to access the next steps of the challenge.

## Considered solutions

The two following solutions were considered :

> 1. Docker with one of the [windows/servercore/nanoserver base OS images](https://hub.docker.com/_/microsoft-windows-base-os-images) + [socat](https://sourceforge.net/projects/unix-utils/files/socat/1.7.3.2/)/xinetd cygwin to redirect socket to stdin/stdout

Reviewer: redirect **a** socket // redirect **the** socket

2. [AppJaillauncher-rs](https://github.com/trailofbits/AppJailLauncher-rs)

> None of these solutions were previously experimented and the lack of remaining time implies that it was not possible to compare the two solutions. 

Reviewer: **implied**

The main drawback of the docker solution is that it seems a little bit expensive in memory, CPU and storage usage at a "high-scale level" compared to the resources available. Though, nanoserver seems to be very [light](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/virtualization/windowscontainers/deploy-containers/system-requirements). 

> The main drawbacks of the AppJailLauncher solution is that (i) the security of the solution has to be checked, even if it has already been used by other people; (ii) customize some configuration of the environment to have a RW private folder for each participant.

Reviewer: (ii) **the environment configuration must be customized to provide** a RW

> During the conception of the challenge, the point that seems the most important was that the remote server will still be alive after a "massive arrival" of players on the step 2. For this reason, the AppJailLauncher solution was selected. Also it seemed easier to test this solution as you can work with it on your laptop easily.

Reviewer: the **design** of the challenge, the point that **seemed** the most important was that the remote server **should** still
**at** step 2

Checking if the Docker solution was better than the AppJailLauncher is left as an exercise to the reader :).

# AppJailLauncher-rs

As described on the GitHub page of the project : 

AppJailLauncher is akin to a simple version of xinetd for Windows but with sandboxing enabled for the spawned child processes. The sandboxing is accomplished via [AppContainers](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/win32/secauthz/appcontainer-isolation). This project is a rewrite of an earlier version in C.

For more information about the AppContainer sandboxing mechanism you can read this [page](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/win32/secauthz/appcontainer-isolation).

## Security problems and their mitigations

### Killing processes

> After auditing the AppJailLauncher project, it turns out that all the processes of the challengers are spawned with the same AppContainerProfile. This could lead to a kind of DoS if a malicious challenger is present. Indeed, once a player obtains its remote code execution, he can try to continuously kill all the processes containing the name of the binary challenge. As the duration of the script exploiting the challenge is of several seconds, the malicious player can prevent other people to solve the challenge with a ratio of 100%.

Reviewer: This **can** lead
**they** can try
prevent other people **from solving** the challenge with a **success rate** of 100%

> In order to avoid this kind of DoS, AppJailLauncher has been modified. In the Thalium's version, each connection creates dynamically a new AppContainerProfile that is deleted 10 minutes after the connection.

Reviewer: In **Thalium's** version
**dynamically creates**

### DoS by huge resource consumption

> The AppJailLauncher project does not provide any mechanism to prevent an excessive RAM or process usage. They propose to add a function inside the challenge source code in order to kill the process after a certain amount of time. The problem with this solution is that after the player obtained a RCE he can kill the thread responsible of this task or he can also spawn other process to bypass this limitation.

Reviewer: **gained** RCE, **they** can
responsible **for**
or **they** can
other **processes**

> Windows provides a mechanism to add this kind of limitation, called Job. In the Thalium's version, a job is set to the spawned process. This job limits the number of processes that can be launched, the timelife and also the maximum memory usage. All these information are configurable with the command line as described in the usage command of AppJailLauncher.

Reviewer: In **Thalium's** version
the **lifetime**
All these **parameters**

> During the SSTIC competition, the limitations were quite restricted, 2 minutes, 100 MB of RAM, 2 parallel processes.

Reviewer: quite **restrictive:**
**concurrent** processes

> There is still one problem that was not addressed, a DoS by writing a lot of data to the disk. This was quite mitigated by the fact that the only one folder that was writable for each player was removed 10 minutes after its creation. 

Reviewer: There **was** still
This **was mitigated**
the **only folder**

## Feature needed

> Due to context of the challenge, players need to be able to write to the disk. This folder needs to be private for each player, as the files created are used to exploit the binary. As with the modification of AppJailLauncher, each process is nows spawned with a different AppContainerProfile, it is enough to create a folder and add the RW rights for the SID of the AppContainerProfile.

Reviewer: **Since our modified AppJailLauncher already spawns each process** with a different AppContainerProfile,

> The duration of these private folders is 10 minutes. In order to be able to reuse this folder during its lifetime, the AppJailLauncher project has been modified and gives to the user a UID when it creates the private folder. For the following connections, the user can give its UID and it will be used to associate the previously created folder to the player. In order to avoid players bruteforcing this UID, it was hashed together with the IP address of the player, and a secret string to generate the folder name.

Reviewer: The **lifetime** of these
during **this duration**
modified **to provide the user with a UID** when it creates
**On subsequent** connections, the user
of the player, and a secret **string, to** generate

## Access to the Desktop file 

> After obtaining a remote code execution, players need to exfiltrate a file that is present on the Desktop of a user of the system. As all the processes are running under different AppContainerProfile, it seems to be a bad idea to add the rights dynamically for each spawned process. 

Reviewer: After **obtaining remote** code execution
seems **like** a bad idea

> Indeed, it exists an SID corresponding to `APPLICATION PACKAGE AUTHORITY\ALL RESTRICTED APPLICATION PACKAGES` that will be effective for all AppContainerProfile. This SID is S-1-15-2-2. The RX rights are needed in order to allow the players to list the folders from C:\ to the file on the Desktop.

Reviewer: **there** exists **a** SID

## Commands to execute

> Command line to add the RW rights to the file on the Desktop of the user, only needed to be executed once per machine :

Reviewer: only **needs** to be

```
ICACLS "C:\Users" /grant "*S-1-15-2-2:(R,RX)"
ICACLS "C:\Users\Challenge" /grant "*S-1-15-2-2:(R,RX)"
ICACLS "C:\Users\Challenge\Desktop" /grant "*S-1-15-2-2:(R,RX)"
ICACLS "C:\Users\Challenge\Desktop\DRM.zip" /grant "*S-1-15-2-2:(R,RX)"
```

Command line to execute AppJailLauncher : 

```
 C:\Tools\appjaillauncher-rs.exe run --foldermazes "C:\users\challenge\\mazes" "C:\Tools\SSTIC.exe"
```

> "C:\Tools\SSTIC.exe" argument is the binary that will be executed when a challenger connects to the port where appjaillauncher listen.

Reviewer: **listens**

> `Foldermazes` parameter is the folder that will contain the private folders. It is needed that this folder exists before running appjaillauncher.

Reviewer: **This folder needs to exist** before

> More parameters can be defined, as the port where the program listens, the job limitations (time, memory, number of processes), etc.

Reviewer: defined, **such** as the port

# Problems to investigate 

## ASLR

## cmd Vs Powershell

## DOS Powershell

## Powershell arguments

# Future work

> As the time was constrained for the deployment of the infrastructure some things could be improved : 

Reviewer: some things **remain to be** improved

* As it was the first time for the author to read and write Rust, the written code could be slightly improved.

> * It seems that some implementations of netcat are not compatible with the functionality that ask the UID of the player. The program will still answer that it needs 64 chars exactly even if the player inputs 64 chars. The problem is certainly due to the end of line character. 

Reviewer: compatible with the **player UID feature**.
due to **mishandling of** the end-of-line

> * Add some statistics of usage (total number of connections, number of crashes, number of connections alive, etc.)

Reviewer: **usage statistics**
number of **live connections**

# Introduction

This post aims to present how to easily setup a lightweight secure user pwning environment for Windows.

> From your binary challenge communicating with stdin/stdout, this environment leads to have a multi-client broker listening on a socket, redirecting it to the IO of your binary, and executing it in a jail.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
From your binary challenge communicating with stdin/stdout, this environment leads to a multi-client broker listening on a socket, redirecting it to the IO of your binary, and executing it in a jail.
```

> From your binary challenge communicating with stdin/stdout, this environment leads to have a multi-client broker listening on a socket, redirecting it to the IO of your binary, and executing it in a jail.

Reviewer 2: J'aurais vu plus un truc comme ça : "This environment is a broker feeding data received from a socket to a binary using stdin/stdout for its communication".

This environment is mainly based on the project [AppJaillauncher-rs](https://github.com/trailofbits/AppJailLauncher-rs) from trailofbits, with some security fixes and some tips to easily setup the RW rights to the system files from the jail.

> The code of the modified AppJailLauncher-rs is available [here](https://github.com/challengeSSTIC2021/appjaillauncher-rs) and the code of the pwn user windows 10 challenge is available [here](https://github.com/challengeSSTIC2021/Step2_challenge).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The code of our fork of AppJailLauncher-rs is available [here](https://github.com/challengeSSTIC2021/appjaillauncher-rs) and the code of the pwn user windows 10 challenge is available [here](https://github.com/challengeSSTIC2021/Step2_challenge).
```

## Context 

> A Thalium Team's member participates to the conception of the [SSTIC challenge 2021](https://www.sstic.org/2021/challenge_en/).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
As a finisher of the previous year challenge, one of Thalium team members contributed to the conception of the [SSTIC challenge 2021](https://www.sstic.org/2021/challenge_en/).
```

> [SSTIC](https://www.sstic.org/) is one of the most important French cybersecurity conference that is organized every year since 2003.
> Since 2009 a challenge is proposed several weeks before the start of the conference.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
[SSTIC](https://www.sstic.org/) is one of the most important French cybersecurity conference.
It is held in Rennes every year since 2003,
and since 2009 a challenge is proposed several weeks before the start of the conference.
```

> This challenge is usually relatively hard/long to solve, this year, b2xiao, the fastest player tooks more than 3 days to solve it.

Reviewer 2: the fastest player (challenger ?) took
Alternativement : "It took the fastest challenger 3 days to solve it"

The challenge was split into 5 parts, the Thalium's member contribution was on the step 2.
You can find other steps of the challenge on the [GitHub Page](https://github.com/challengeSSTIC2021) of the challenge 

This second step was a userland pwn challenge running on a Windows 10 operating system.
After reversing the binary and finding the vulnerabilities, the players obtained a heap leak and a RW primitive leading to a RCE.

> For more information, about solving the challenge you can read the solutions of the participants of the challenge, available on [this page](https://www.sstic.org/2021/challenge/).

Reviewer 2: For more information about -> delete la virgule
delete "of the challenge", fait beaucoup de "of the of the of the"

## Requirements

> The specifications can be listed as below : 

Reviewer 2: The specification are listed below

* Limited resources, the proposed machine to use for the remote was [16GO DDR3, 2*1 To Storage, Intel® Xeon E3 1220v2 (4 cores)](https://www.scaleway.com/fr/dedibox/start/start-1-l/).

> This machine needs to also host the remote infrastructure for other steps, and is running with KVM;

Reviewer 2: "This machine also needs to host" ou "The machine also hosts" tout court

* As this challenge is the second step and the first is an easy step, it is possible than dozens of challengers connects to this challenge simultaneously;

> * As it is a CTF challenge, it is needed that players can not interfere with other players once they get an RCE;

Reviewer 2: It is needed -> it is mandatory

As the duration of the script exploiting the challenge is of several seconds, the malicious player can prevent other people to solve the challenge with a ratio of 100%.

In order to avoid this kind of DoS, AppJailLauncher has been modified.
In the Thalium's version, each connection creates dynamically a new AppContainerProfile that is deleted 10 minutes after the connection.

### DoS by huge resource consumption

The AppJailLauncher project does not provide any mechanism to prevent an excessive RAM or process usage.
They propose to add a function inside the challenge source code in order to kill the process after a certain amount of time.
The problem with this solution is that after the player obtained a RCE he can kill the thread responsible of this task or he can also spawn other process to bypass this limitation.

Windows provides a mechanism to add this kind of limitation, called Job.
In the Thalium's version, a job is set to the spawned process.
This job limits the number of processes that can be launched, the timelife and also the maximum memory usage.
All these information are configurable with the command line as described in the usage command of AppJailLauncher.

> During the SSTIC competition, the limitations were quite restricted, 2 minutes, 100 MB of RAM, 2 parallel processes.

Reviewer 2: were quite "severe / harsh" ?
Aussi : "were quite restricted: XXX, YYY, ZZZ"

There is still one problem that was not addressed, a DoS by writing a lot of data to the disk.

> This was quite mitigated by the fact that the only one folder that was writable for each player was removed 10 minutes after its creation.

Reviewer 2: quite -> somewhat ?

## Feature needed

Due to context of the challenge, players need to be able to write to the disk.
This folder needs to be private for each player, as the files created are used to exploit the binary.

> As with the modification of AppJailLauncher, each process is nows spawned with a different AppContainerProfile, it is enough to create a folder and add the RW rights for the SID of the AppContainerProfile.

Reviewer 2: is nows -> is now
"with a different AppContainerProfile. That is enough..."

> The duration of these private folders is 10 minutes.

Reviewer 2: J'ai un doute sur le "duration is 10 minutes" dans ce contexte.
"These private folders were available for 10 minutes before being automatically removed" ???

This SID is S-1-15-2-2.
The RX rights are needed in order to allow the players to list the folders from C:\ to the file on the Desktop.

## Commands to execute

Command line to add the RW rights to the file on the Desktop of the user, only needed to be executed once per machine :

```
ICACLS "C:\Users" /grant "*S-1-15-2-2:(R,RX)"
ICACLS "C:\Users\Challenge" /grant "*S-1-15-2-2:(R,RX)"
ICACLS "C:\Users\Challenge\Desktop" /grant "*S-1-15-2-2:(R,RX)"
ICACLS "C:\Users\Challenge\Desktop\DRM.zip" /grant "*S-1-15-2-2:(R,RX)"
```

Command line to execute AppJailLauncher : 

```
 C:\Tools\appjaillauncher-rs.exe run --foldermazes "C:\users\challenge\\mazes" "C:\Tools\SSTIC.exe"
```

"C:\Tools\SSTIC.exe" argument is the binary that will be executed when a challenger connects to the port where appjaillauncher listen.

`Foldermazes` parameter is the folder that will contain the private folders.
It is needed that this folder exists before running appjaillauncher.

More parameters can be defined, as the port where the program listens, the job limitations (time, memory, number of processes), etc.

During the competition, this command was launched with Powershell.

# Problems to investigate 

> Some weirds problem happened during the development and the competition.

Reviewer 2: Some weird problems

There are listed below : 

## ASLR

On Windows OS, it is known that well-known DLLs (e.g., ntdll) are mapped at the same address for all the processes of the system.
This value is modified at each reboot of the system.
Nevertheless, the mapping of executed PE, like the binary challenge is known to be different at each execution.
During the development phase of the binary challenge, it appears that executed binaries are always mapped at the same address during a boot life.
This value changes when the system is reboot.

## cmd Vs Powershell

Most of players obtaining a remote code execution have launched a process with the WinExec call.
Some of them have used Powershell and some of them have used cmd.
It turns out that people using cmd.exe were not able to list directories and access the file from the Desktop.
Though, people spawning powershell were able to reach the file on the Desktop and read it.

## DOS Powershell

## Powershell arguments

# Conclusion 

> Deploy such a CTF infrastructure for a windows pwn user is not so documented on internet.

Reviewer 2: Deploying such .... is not well documented...

Two options seem to be interesting (i) Docker and (ii) AppJailLauncher project from TrailOfBits.
Here AppJailLauncher have been chosen and after some modifications, the obtained solution was satisfying all the requirements.
During the competition, from the 2nd of April to the 20th May, dozens of participants have been connecting to the remote infrastructure.

> At least 29 participants exploited the binary and get a remote shell.

Reviewer 2: exploited [...] and got

From your binary challenge communicating with stdin/stdout, this environment leads to a multi-client broker listening on a socket, redirecting it to the IO of your binary, and executing it in a jail.
This environment is mainly based on the project [AppJaillauncher-rs](https://github.com/trailofbits/AppJailLauncher-rs) from trailofbits, with some security fixes and some tips to easily setup the RW rights to the system files from the jail.

The code of our fork of AppJailLauncher-rs is available [here](https://github.com/challengeSSTIC2021/appjaillauncher-rs) and the code of the pwn user windows 10 challenge is available [here](https://github.com/challengeSSTIC2021/Step2_challenge).

## Context 

As a finisher of the previous year challenge, one of Thalium team members contributed to the conception of the [SSTIC challenge 2021](https://www.sstic.org/2021/challenge_en/).
[SSTIC](https://www.sstic.org/) is one of the most important French cybersecurity conference. It is held in Rennes every year since 2003, and since 2009 a challenge is proposed several weeks before the start of the conference.

> This challenge is usually relatively hard/long to solve, this year, b2xiao, the fastest player tooks more than 3 days to solve it.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This challenge is usually relatively hard/long to solve: this year, the 12 finishers (out of 1600 downloads) took from 3 days for b2xiao to more than six weeks.
```

> The challenge was split into 5 parts, the Thalium's member contribution was on the step 2.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The challenge was split into 5 parts, we designed and implemented part 2.
```

> You can find other steps of the challenge on the [GitHub Page](https://github.com/challengeSSTIC2021) of the challenge 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You can find the other parts of the challenge on the [GitHub Page](https://github.com/challengeSSTIC2021) of the challenge.
```
ou mettre step partout

This second step was a userland pwn challenge running on a Windows 10 operating system.

> After reversing the binary and finding the vulnerabilities, the players obtained a heap leak and a RW primitive leading to a RCE.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
After reversing the binary and finding the vulnerabilities, the players obtained a heap leak and a RW primitive leading to an RCE.
```

se prononce Arhssi-i

For more information about solving the challenge you can read the solutions of the participants, available on [this page](https://www.sstic.org/2021/challenge/).

## Requirements

> The specification can be listed as below : 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The specification can be listed as below:
```
pas d'espace avant la poncutatuion en anglais

* Limited resources, the proposed machine to use for the remote was [16GO DDR3, 2*1 To Storage, Intel® Xeon E3 1220v2 (4 cores)](https://www.scaleway.com/fr/dedibox/start/start-1-l/).
This machine also hosts the remote infrastructure for other steps, and is running with KVM;
* As this challenge is the second step and the first is an easy step, it is possible than dozens of players connects to this challenge simultaneously;
* As it is a CTF challenge, it is mandatory that players can not interfere with other players once they get an RCE;
* Players can not make network connections once a RCE is obtained;
* Be somewhat resistant to *script-kiddies* tentative of DOS;
* Preferable that the binary challenge communicates with stdin/stdout in order to not handle network connection;
* Private temporary RW folder for each participant.
This requirement is related to the context of the binary challenge;
* Players can read a "big" file on a user Desktop in order to access the next steps of the challenge.

## Considered solutions

> The two following solutions were considered :

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The two following solutions were considered:
```

1. Docker with one of the [windows/servercore/nanoserver base OS images](https://hub.docker.com/_/microsoft-windows-base-os-images) + [socat](https://sourceforge.net/projects/unix-utils/files/socat/1.7.3.2/)/xinetd cygwin to redirect socket to stdin/stdout

2. [AppJaillauncher-rs](https://github.com/trailofbits/AppJailLauncher-rs)

> None of these solutions were previously experimented and the lack of remaining time implies that it was not possible to compare the two solutions.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
We had no experience with any of those solutions and the lack of remaining time implied that it was not possible to compare them, even superficially.
```

The main drawback of the docker solution is that it seems a little bit expensive in memory, CPU and storage usage at a "high-scale level" compared to the resources available.
Though, nanoserver seems to be very [light](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/virtualization/windowscontainers/deploy-containers/system-requirements).

The main drawbacks of the AppJailLauncher solution is that (i) the security of the solution has to be checked, even if it has already been used by other people; (ii) customize some configuration of the environment to have a RW private folder for each participant.

> During the conception of the challenge, the point that seems the most important was that the remote server will still be alive after a "massive arrival" of players on the step 2.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
During the conception of the challenge, the point that seems the most important was that the remote server will still be alive after a "massive arrival" of players on step 2.
```
ou `the second step`

## Security problems and their mitigations

### Killing processes

After auditing the AppJailLauncher project, it turns out that all the processes of the players are spawned with the same AppContainerProfile.
This could lead to a kind of DoS if a malicious player is present.
Indeed, once a player obtains its remote code execution, he can try to continuously kill all the processes containing the name of the binary challenge.
As the duration of the script exploiting the challenge is of several seconds, the malicious player can prevent other people to solve the challenge with a ratio of 100%.

In order to avoid this kind of DoS, AppJailLauncher has been modified.
In the Thalium's version, each connection creates dynamically a new AppContainerProfile that is deleted 10 minutes after the connection.

### DoS by huge resource consumption

The AppJailLauncher project does not provide any mechanism to prevent an excessive RAM or process usage.
They propose to add a function inside the challenge source code in order to kill the process after a certain amount of time.

> The problem with this solution is that after the player obtained a RCE he can kill the thread responsible of this task or he can also spawn other process to bypass this limitation.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The problem with this solution is that after the player obtained a RCE he can kill the thread responsible for this task or spawn other processes to bypass this limitation.
```

The duration of these private folders is 10 minutes.
In order to be able to reuse this folder during its lifetime, the AppJailLauncher project has been modified and gives to the user a UID when it creates the private folder.
For the following connections, the user can give its UID and it will be used to associate the previously created folder to the player.
In order to avoid players bruteforcing this UID, it was hashed together with the IP address of the player, and a secret string to generate the folder name.

## Access to the Desktop file 

After obtaining a remote code execution, players need to exfiltrate a file that is present on the Desktop of a user of the system.
As all the processes are running under different AppContainerProfile, it seems to be a bad idea to add the rights dynamically for each spawned process.

Indeed, it exists an SID corresponding to `APPLICATION PACKAGE AUTHORITY\ALL RESTRICTED APPLICATION PACKAGES` that will be effective for all AppContainerProfile.
This SID is S-1-15-2-2.
The RX rights are needed in order to allow the players to list the folders from C:\ to the file on the Desktop.

## Commands to execute

> Command line to add the RW rights to the file on the Desktop of the user, only needed to be executed once per machine :

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Command line to add the RW rights to the file on the Desktop of the user, only needed to be executed once per machine:
```

```
ICACLS "C:\Users" /grant "*S-1-15-2-2:(R,RX)"
ICACLS "C:\Users\Challenge" /grant "*S-1-15-2-2:(R,RX)"
ICACLS "C:\Users\Challenge\Desktop" /grant "*S-1-15-2-2:(R,RX)"
ICACLS "C:\Users\Challenge\Desktop\DRM.zip" /grant "*S-1-15-2-2:(R,RX)"
```

> Command line to execute AppJailLauncher : 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Command line to execute AppJailLauncher:
```

```
 C:\Tools\appjaillauncher-rs.exe run --foldermazes "C:\users\challenge\\mazes" "C:\Tools\SSTIC.exe"
```

> "C:\Tools\SSTIC.exe" argument is the binary that will be executed when a player connects to the port where appjaillauncher listen.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
"C:\Tools\SSTIC.exe" argument is the binary that will be executed when a player connects to the port where appjaillauncher listens.
```

## DOS Powershell

It appears that some players found a kind of Denial Of Service by executing some commands with their Remote Code Execution. Indeed, it seems they where able to make the AppJailLauncher process crash from their jail. It happens two times.

## Powershell arguments

When players executed powershell commands asking arguments from their RCE, the arguments were asked in the powershell terminal from which the AppJailLauncher were launched.

# Conclusion 

Deploy such a CTF infrastructure for a windows pwn user is not so documented on internet.
Two options seem to be interesting (i) Docker and (ii) AppJailLauncher project from TrailOfBits.
Here, AppJailLauncher have been chosen and after some modifications, the obtained solution was satisfying all the requirements.
During the competition, from the 2nd of April to the 20th May, dozens of participants have been connecting to the remote infrastructure.
At least 29 participants exploited the binary and get a remote shell.
None of them have defeat the infrastructure, or maybe we did not see it or maybe nobody tried to defeat it.

> The AppJailLauncher has crashed only 3 times, restarting it is easy as run one command line.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The AppJailLauncher has crashed only 3 times, and was restarted with a single command line.
```

> As seen in the section problems of this post, there are still weird behaviours that can be related to the AppJailLauncher project.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
As seen in the *problems* section of this post, there are still weird behaviors that can be related to the AppJailLauncher project.
```
